- [Instructor] Now the last big-picture change
that we're going to talk about, is the Nullable annotation
that we now have support for in Spring 5.
Nullable is part of JSR 305,
which is a set of annotations used primarily
for software defect detection.
In fact a lot of static analysis leverages JSR 305
to determine if null checks need to be included
in the code or not.
IDE support also is leveraging JSR 305
to give you compiler warnings as you're writing your code.
Now Spring is using the Nullable annotation
as part of its IoC container in version of control,
or dependency injection, depending on
how you want to look at that, but it's all
really the same thing.
This is an indication of optional injection points.
And that's really key there because we're getting
optional injection points that can be used
for other JVM languages, and we're going to talk about that
in a little bit.
We get field-level annotation through the use
of the @Nullable annotation.
We also get parameter-level annotation
using that same Nullable annotation.
Indeed we can put it on the return value method,
a parameter of a method, or a field-level value in a class.
Now at the package level we get an annotation
of NonNullApi, that can be applied to all of the methods
within a package.
One thing that you can't help but ignore
is that the beauty of Kotlin has really influenced
a lot of this within the JVM,
and specifically within Spring.
Spring has a very strong affinity towards Kotlin,
and it appears to me that it really has become
the defacto language of choice when you're not using Java
for developing Spring applications.
Kotlin itself has native support
for non-null safety, and that's key.
Because when you declare a variable
you say whether it can be null or not.
And if it is not nullable, you don't need
to put null checks.
But if it is nullable, you need to have null checks
across your code.
And this is really designed to remove
a lot of that code bloat that happens
when we write good-quality defensive code.
Now I am a fan of defensive code.
I think it's very easy to read and very clean,
and it let's me actually check what I'm doing.
But I'm probably in the minority
when it comes to the beauty of that in my eyes.
And of course beauty is always in the eye of the beholder,
so I don't have a problem with that.
But if you're a fan of not having null checks
in your code and not being as defensive,
check out the Nullable annotation.
You might really like it, especially when
you're writing a Spring application.